
OBSOLETE DOCUMENT
check system.library.txt


Structure
---------

The common JSON file struct in FriendUP looks like this:

{
	MetaType:     'executable',       // File variant
	Type:         'file',             // Volume, directory, file?
	Filesize:     12893,
	DateModified: 'YYYY-MM-DD HH:II:SS',
	DateCreated:  'YYYY-MM-DD HH:II:SS',
	Permissions:  { ... },
	..
	
}

1. Filesystem
2. DOSDrivers
3. Web Calls
4. Writting FS

FriendUP  is a  special  kind of operating  system that works  on many different 
devices. In this document can find information about how to play with its feautures and
how to develop new file systems. All management is done through the main FC library, 
system.library. The library is placed in the libs directory with external stuff:

	emod        - execute modules - small programs which allow to use external 
	              languages
	nodejs.emod - execute module for javascript langauge
	php.emod    - execute module for php
	sys.emod    - execute module for local machine (system commands)
	fsys        - filesystems - C lanugage coded handlers used to control files
	local.fsys  - local disk handler, provide access to local disks
	php.fsys    - php disk handler, provide access to many web disks like 
	              websites, sql, etc.
	ssh.fsys    - ssh disk handler, provide access to disk of external servers 
	              trough ssh
 
When writing a Friend Core DOS driver, first create a directory. The name of the
directory must match the name of the DOS driver. So for example, if the DOS 
driver is called "CowboyNeilDrive", then the directory name must be exactly the
same, case sensitive.

The directory structure is as follows (languages are examples, and optional):

DOSDrivers/
	CowboyNeilDrive/
		Locale/
			en.lang
			no.lang
			pl.lang
		door.php
		dosdriver.ini
		gui.html
		info.html
		sysinfo.json

The directory above is a PHP based DOS driver. DOS drivers written in high level
languages are easy to write and easier to complete in a short amount of time.
A drawback might be speed. C is much easier to make fast.


